Johann von Hinrichs (1752–1834) received training as a military
engineer. He served as an officer of Hessian jägers during the American
Revolutionary War. He wrote a series of letters to his Minister of War
which survive as an important historical record. Some time after the war,
he offered his sword to the Kingdom of Prussia. In 1806 he commanded a
brigade in the Prussian army and was captured in one of the early battles.

Hinrichs was born in 1752 and joined the army of Hesse-Kassel. He fought in
the American Revolutionary War as part of the first group of Hessian
soldiers to arrive in America starting in 1776. While serving as a
lieutenant of jägers, he was badly wounded in the chest during the New York
and New Jersey Campaign. He was promoted to captain in 1778 and wounded
"several" more times during the war. He penned a series of letters to
Friedrich Christian Arnold von Jungkenn, the Hesse-Kassel Minister of
State. These missives survived and provide an important account of the
war. On 18 January 1778 he wrote that the Americans were not, "to be
despised", and that it only, "requires Time and good leadership to make
them formidable". He also described his activities in detail during the
Siege of Charleston in 1780. Historian Mark M. Boatner III remarked that
his writings show that, "he was well-educated and had a keen and
intelligent interest in a wide variety of subjects from fighting to
music". He was trained as an engineer, fought as a jäger officer, and
entered the line infantry in 1784. Transferring his allegiance to Prussia
soon after, he was granted a title of nobility.

By 1806, Hinrichs was a General-major in command of a brigade in Eugene
Frederick Henry, Duke of Württemberg's Prussian Reserve in the War of the
Fourth Coalition. On 17 October 1806, he fought in the Battle of Halle
against the French I Corps under France Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte. Hinrichs'
Advance Guard was made up of the Borell Fusilier battalion Nr. 9, Knorr
Fusilier battalion Nr. 12, and Hinrichs Fusilier battalion Nr. 17, two
squadrons of Usedom Hussar Regiment Nr. 10, one squadron of Hertzberg
Dragoon Regiment Nr. 9, one squadron of Heyking Dragoon Regiment Nr. 10,
and two horse artillery pieces.
