Nathaniel Hitch (1845–1938) was a British sculptor. As a young man, he became an apprentice sculptor journeyman and after studying at the Borough Polytechnic and experience working alongside architectural sculptors, he developed a career carving altarpieces, church furniture and other decorative features for churches.

Nathaniel Hitch was born in Ware, Hertfordshire in 1845, his father being George Hitch, a joiner, carpenter and builder by trade.

Showing an early talent for working with his hands, Hitch created a small model for the vestry of Ware Parish Church when he was 12 years age.

In around 1860, Hitch was apprenticed to the architectural sculptors, Farmer and Brindley in London who worked in wood, stone and metal creating art metalwork and architectural furnishings. Until Hitch developed his own commissions it is difficult to speculate as to what he worked on, but the major commissions competed by his employers may provide some insight. Farmer and Brindley's clients at the time of Hitch's apprenticeship included Alfred Waterhouse and Sir Gilbert Scott and their projects included work on the Natural History Museum, Albert Memorial, and Westminster Cathedral. Hitch would have "carved out rough-hewn forms ready for the master carver to add the fine details and finishing touches to the sculpture."

To further his skills, Hitch attended Borough Polytechnic, now London South Bank University between 1894 and 1901, this arranged by Farmer and Brindley.

After Farmer and Brindley, Hitch was employed by the sculptor Thomas Nicholls, one of whose projects was work at Lord Bute’s Cardiff Castle for the architect William Burges.[1] Burges was responsible for considerable renovation to the castle, which included nine animal sculptures built into what was called the Animal Wall which was completed by Nicholls possibly with Hitch's assistance.

Hitch's career spanned the years 1871 to 1935 and although he considered himself primarily as an architectural sculptor, he was also a mason, sculptor, sculptor's modeller and church decorator. For most of his life he ran a small business in Battersea in Greater London, employing several highly skilled masons.

Hitch worked with several architects who used him to carve altarpieces, church furniture and other decorative features on churches they were commissioned to design and during his career he worked with architects such as John Loughborough Pearson, who provided Hitch with most of his commissions. His association with Pearson spanned at least the period between 1880 and 1912. Hitch also worked with William Douglas Caröe, a student of Pearson, as well as H. Fuller Clark, T.H. Lyon, and Paul Waterhouse.
