Sorita d'Este is an author, folklorist, occult researcher and prominent teacher. She was initiated into Alexandrian Wicca in the early 1990s, but renounced her involvement with the tradition in 2016. She is also a leading authority in the Goddess spirituality and the author of 18 books. She was born in Cape Town, South Africa in the 1970s.

Sorita currently resides in Glastonbury, England, from where she continues to run her independent publishing company Avalonia, named after the town's mythical origins as the isle of Avalon. In an interview with Pagan Dawn Magazine (Issue 195, May 2015) celebrating 10 years of Avalonia Sorita writes "My primary goal has never been commercial. I am far more occupied in learning and expanding on my knowledge of the esoteric world. It is an incredible bonus that I am able to earn a living from it and spend my time working with some of the most fabulous researchers, artists and esoteric teachers!"

She is the founder of The Covenant of Hekate, an international organisation dedicated to The Goddess Hekate as The Cosmic World Soul. She lit a flame on behalf of The Covenant of Hekate at the multifaith Glastonbury 2012 Harmony and Healing event held at the Chalice Well Gardens, Glastonbury on 21 April 2012. The Covenant of Hekate organised The Hekate Triformis Symposium which took place in Glastonbury 2012 and again in June 2013 and September 2014.

In an interview with the Spanish magazine Ser Pagano in 2014 Sorita speaks out about her work saying "My work encompasses my own passions, which includes a wide range of traditions, practices and history pertaining to the Western Mystery Tradition and I am always happy to hear that others find the work I have done useful for reference and indeed practice. I first encountered Hekate as a child,through classical literature and poetry, but it was not until 2000 that I first encountered Hekate in a meaningful and magical way."

She was a keynote speaker at CWED (Conferência de Wicca & Espiritualidade da Deusa) in São Paulo, Brazil in August 2014 alongside Claudiney Prieto, Deborah Lipp and Zsuzsanna Budapest. She led the World Goddess Day celebrations in Glastonbury in September 2014.

In Urthona, a journal of Buddhism and the Arts she describes Magic as "In Western magic ‘magical powers’ – whatever they might be – can be both worldly (as in the case of witchcraft or sorcery), or transcendental (as in theurgy) and for me they simply are. In this respect I would say that magic is a harbinger of change, and the proof of it is in the effects it enacts on the practitioner and through that on the world around the practitioner. The techniques through which magic is practiced could also be considered in the same way as technology: it works, and if necessary it can be easily adapted by an experienced practitioner, with the relevant knowledge, to fit different spiritual paradigms."
